---
title: "Tailor Tales and Tuk-Tuks: A Spontaneous Weekend in Vietnam"
slug: tailor-tales-and-tuk-tuks-a-spontaneous-weekend-in-vietnam
categories: travel asia vietnam
tags: vietnam hoi-an da-nang singapore tailor-made shopping silk-suits ox-riding boat-tours local-cuisine
excerpt: "Ditching our usual Singaporean attire of shorts and flip-flops, we embarked on a spontaneous journey to Vietnam for a tailor-made adventure. From suits with dragon embroidery to traditional Vietnamese boats and ox rides, this trip was a whirlwind of unique experiences and delightful surprises."
---

### A Spontaneous Trip to Vietnam

Singapore's sunny shores, where flip-flops and shorts reign supreme, make for a laid-back wardrobe. But an invitation to my friend Hatim's traditional Indian wedding in Africa, spanning five days with a different dress code for each, called for a wardrobe overhaul. Shorts and flip-flops wouldn't cut it for an event brimming with culture and style. So, where does one turn for such a sartorial challenge? Vietnam, of course, specifically Hoi An – the tailoring capital.

### Discovering Hoi An's Tailoring Magic

Our journey began with a swift and pleasant flight from Changi Airport to Da Nang. Hoi An awaited us, an hour's drive from Da Nang. Here, nestled in the heart of Vietnam, is where tailoring artistry comes alive. Bong Tailors, a recommendation from my gym trainer and friend Bryan, did not disappoint. The excitement of getting custom-made clothing was palpable, a rare treat I'd only experienced once before, for a friend's wedding in Beijing.

At Bong Tailors, we were greeted by the infectious enthusiasm of two Vietnamese ladies, ready to embark on our sartorial adventure. From the classic brown wool suit to the more outlandish blue silk number with golden dragon embroidery, the options seemed endless. And then, the pièce de résistance – matching silk pajamas for the dream team, my best friends Christian, Mera and Hatim, including their respective partners, a whimsical choice for the upcoming wedding.

### A Venture into Vietnamese Craftsmanship

But it wasn't just about the clothes. Across the street, a leather shop, run by the tailor's sister, promised more treasures. Handmade shoes, a leather travel bag to match, and a belt – all crafted to perfection and ready overnight. Such efficiency and craftsmanship at surprisingly reasonable prices were a testament to Vietnam's artisanal spirit.

### Culinary Delights and Local Sights

Hoi An isn't just about tailoring; it's a city rich in flavors and sights. A Vietnamese medley for lunch introduced us to the local cuisine, from delectable pork dishes to fresh pomelo salad. Even in the old town, every turn brought new discoveries, from quaint restaurants to homemade ice cream sold straight from living rooms.

### Experiencing Traditional Vietnam

Our adventure took a traditional turn with ox riding and circular boat tours – a mix of silly and fun, capturing the essence of local tourism. As we drove along, oxen dotted the roadside, leading us to an inevitable conclusion. Our driver nonchalantly pulled over beside a local with his ox, presenting it as our ride. The spontaneity was part of the charm. Climbing atop the ox, we couldn't help but chuckle. It was an experience straight out of a travel comedy – riding ten meters down the road, then back again, all while a flurry of photos captured our every move. Nat took her turn, adding to the collection of memories with her own short jaunt. Together, we posed for pictures, embracing the touristy clichés with open arms.

### The Whimsical Ba Na Hills

Our final escapade was to Ba Na Hills, a place that defies description. A fake European city perched atop a hill, accessible by one of the world's longest cable cars. Here, we found a blend of German, French, and Italian influences, complete with castles and a miniature Eiffel Tower. It was a surreal yet delightful experience, a playful nod to the wonders of imagination.

We weren't sure if and how to take all this seriously – but it didn't matter: We enjoyed it tremendously.

### Back to Singapore

Our journey back to Singapore was bittersweet. The whirlwind of tailor-made suits, traditional experiences, and culinary delights left us enriched and eager for more. Vietnam, with its vibrant culture and skilled artisans, had given us memories to cherish and stories to tell.

In the end, this impromptu trip turned out to be more than just a shopping spree; it was a delightful juxtaposition of the silly and the serene; a journey into the heart of Vietnamese culture, craftsmanship, and hospitality. It reminded us that sometimes, the most memorable adventures are the ones that are least expected.
