---
title: "Short But Sweet: A Hong Kong Stopover"
slug: short-but-sweet-a-hong-kong-stopover
categories: travel asia hongkong
tags: hong-kong asia travel
excerpt: "Our brief but memorable visit to Hong Kong, a city that never fails to captivate with its stunning skyline, vibrant streets, and diverse culinary delights."
---

After [Taiwan]({% post_url 2017/2017-06-17-taiwan %}), our next destination was Hong Kong, a city that holds a special place in my heart. Although our visit was brief, Hong Kong never disappoints. I’ve been to Hong Kong multiple times – once or twice as a child, and several times as an adult. Each visit has its own set of memories and experiences.

This time, Philipp and I were excited to meet up with Sebastian, whom we had met in Taiwan. It’s always great to reconnect with friends on the road, and Sebastian, now living in Hong Kong with his wife, was as fun as ever.

Hong Kong, with its towering skyscrapers and vibrant streets, always offers something new. We started our visit with a drink at Ozone Bar, perched high above the city in what was then the highest bar in the world. The view was spectacular, the perfect introduction to Hong Kong’s breathtaking skyline.

Our days in Hong Kong were a mix of sightseeing and socializing. We spent time at taking pictures of Victoria Harbour, both on the Tsim Sha Tsui (TST) side and from the Peak. The panoramic views of the skyline, especially at night, are simply mesmerizing. We took countless photos, capturing the beauty of the cityscape.

We also hung out with Vicky, a Russian who had moved to Hong Kong to teach English. She joined us for a day at the Peak, where we took more stunning pictures of the city. Hong Kong’s blend of natural and urban landscapes never ceases to amaze me.

Food was, of course, a big part of our Hong Kong experience. We were on a mission to find the best burgers, and we stumbled upon some fantastic places. Lang Kwai Fong (LKF) provided our nightlife fix, with its bustling bars and clubs. We met another Iman, a fellow traveler, and another German whose name escapes me but who left a memorable impression.

Our adventures took us to Wan Chai and Lantau Island, where we visited the Big Buddha and the Po Lin Monastery. These serene spots offered a peaceful contrast to the city’s frenetic energy. We also indulged in more delicious food, savoring the diverse flavors Hong Kong has to offer.

One of my fondest memories from this trip was the quality time I spent with Philipp. We knew that Hong Kong would be our last stop together before parting ways, so we made the most of it. We had deep conversations, reminiscing about our journey and discussing future plans. Philipp was set to visit his girlfriend’s family in the Philippines, while I planned to explore more of Southeast Asia.

Reflecting on our brief but eventful time in Hong Kong, I’m reminded of the city’s unique charm and the special bond of friendship that travel fosters. Our experiences in Hong Kong were a fitting end to our journey together, filled with laughter, exploration, and heartfelt moments.

As I continued my solo adventures to [the Philippines]({% post_url 2017/2017-06-26-philippines %}) and through Southeast Asia, the memories of our time in Hong Kong stayed with me, a reminder of the incredible journey we had shared.
